---
title: Quotes
author: Daniel V Fryer
date: '2019-07-19'
slug: quotes
categories: []
tags: []
comments: yes
image: ''
menu: ''
share: yes
---

Quotes can lose their intended meaning when taken out of context.
If you like something here, then follow it up via the links.

---

> "Practicing diplomats and politicians have often found their margin 
> of success depends on their ability to seize upon unique twists
> in the political or psychological environment, twists which allow
> the individual to escape the seemingly uncontrollable tide of events
> that one would expect a mathematical model to extrapolate... 
> one achieves a greater 'benefit' within a given 'cost-constraint,'
> not by being tight and precise about budgeting one's resources,
> but rather by preserving the detachment and freedom one will need
> in order to seize upon whole new options."</br>
>     - [**Paul J Werbos, Chapter V of his PhD thesis (1974)**]
(https://www.researchgate.net/publication/
35657389_Beyond_regression_new_tools_for_
prediction_and_analysis_in_the_behavioral_sciences)

Paul Werbos was the first (in the US) to propose using the
Backpropagation algorithm for neural nets. He did so in his 1974
PhD thesis titled 'Beyond Regression: New Tools for Prediction and 
Analysis in the Behavioral Sciences.' The above quote was part of
an argument for why political scientists may be skeptical of 
mathematical models. Werbos goes on to critique the ability of 
regression models to predict the future, and to discuss the
nature of 'truth' in statistics.

---

> "There is an old saying 'If all a man has is a hammer, then every problem looks like a nail.' 
> The trouble for statisticians is that recently some of the problems have stopped looking 
> like nails. I conjecture that the result of hitting this wall is that more complicated 
> data models are appearing in current published applications. Bayesian methods combined 
> with Markov Chain Monte Carlo are cropping up all over. This may signify that as data 
> becomes more complex, the data models become more cumbersome and are losing 
> the advantage of presenting a simple and clear picture of nature's mechanism."</br>
>    - [**Leo Breimann, Statistical Modelling: The Two Cultures (2001)**]
(https://projecteuclid.org/euclid.ss/1009213726)

---

> The gap between the automatic differentiation community and the neural network community 
> reminds me of a split I once saw between some people making aircraft 
> engines and people making aircraft bodies. When the engine people work 
> on their own, without integrating their work with the airframes, 
> they will find only limited markets for their product. The same goes for 
> airframe people working alone. Only when the engine and the airframe 
> are combined together, into an integrated product, can we obtain a 
> real airplane – a product of great power and general interest.</br>
> - [**Paul J Werbos, Backwards Differentiation in AD and Neural Nets: Past Links and New Opportunities (2004)**]
(http://www.werbos.com/AD2004.pdf)

---

> "There are good reasons why the theorems should all be easy and the definitions hard. 
> As the evolution of Stokes' Theorem revealed, a single simple principle can masquerade 
> as several difficult results; the proofs of many theorems involve merely stripping away 
> the disguise. The  definitions, on the other hand, serve a twofold purpose: they are 
> rigorous replacements for vague notions, and machinery for elegant  proofs." </br>
> - [**Michael Spivak, Calculus on Manifolds (1965)**]
(http://strangebeautiful.com/other-texts/spivak-calc-manifolds.pdf)


--- 

> "Hamilton, who discovered quaternions, invented the word associative to disassociate 
> himself from octonions, which are not... Closer to home — most operations on 
> floating-point numbers are not associative on modern computers 
> because of rounding errors." </br>
> - [**Bartosz Milewski, Monoids on Steroids, Programming Cafe Blog (2017)**]
(https://bartoszmilewski.com/2017/02/09/monoids-on-steroids/)


---

> "1936 - Alan Turing invents every programming language that will ever be but 
> is shanghaied by British Intelligence to be 007 before he can patent them.
> 1936 - Alonzo Church also invents every language that will ever be but does it better. 
> His lambda calculus is ignored because it is insufficiently C-like. 
> This criticism occurs in spite of the fact that C has not yet been invented."</br>
> - [**James Iry, A Brief, Incomplete, and Mostly Wrong History of Programming Languages (2009)**]
(http://james-iry.blogspot.com/2009/05/brief-incomplete-and-mostly-wrong.html)
